lectures/01.md, before:

[Back to Schedule](../schedule.md)

# Week 1: Version Control, Git, HTML

## What is version control?

Version control describes a system that keeps track of changes to a code project over time. Each change to code is tracked so that if at any time, a developer wants to turn back time to a previous version of the code, he/she is able to do so. Every project that you start working on as a web developer benefits from being tracked in a version control system, because it will record the history of all the additions and changes that happen over time to the project. When working in a group, the version control system will also help to resolve conflicts when different team members make different changes to the same line of code.

## Git

Git is the most widely used version control system in the software development world today. It is an open source program that contains all the logic to track the entire history of changes in a project, called commits, along with comments describing the changes. Many software projects, both commercial and open-source are version controlled with the Git and hosted on it's website, [GitHub](https://www.github.com/). 

For this course, we will create GitHub **repositories** for all our projects. A repository is a container for a code project (similar to a folder on your computer where you store all the project files). Publishing all the changes to your code on GitHub as you work on it will ensure that if anything issues happen with your computer, all the saved code is secured online and you can easily recover it.

## Install Git

### Windows

1. Download the [Git installer for Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win)
2. Run the install script.
  1. Make sure the option to install **Git Bash** is checked
  2. Select **Vim** as Git's default editor.
  3. Select **Use Git from Git Bash only**.
  4. Select **Use the OpenSSL library**.
  5. Select **Checkout Windows-style, commit Unix-style line endings**.
  6. Select **Use MinTTY**.
  
### Mac

1. Download Homebrew by pasting the following into Terminal:
```
/usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
```
2. If you are asked if you want to install the **Command Line Developer Tools** by Apple, confirm by clicking **Install**.
3. Paste the following into Terminal to install git from Homebrew:
```
brew install git
```

## Create a GitHub account

If you don't have one already, register for an account on [GitHub.com](https://www.github.com/).

## Basic Git Tutorial

The following tutorial will teach the basic Git commands, including how to create a repository, add and change files, and more: [Git Tutorial](http://product.hubspot.com/blog/git-and-github-tutorial-for-beginners)

## Basic Git Commands

Here are the basic steps you'll need to get started with a new repository on Git:

1. Tell Git who you are. You'll only have to do this once:
```
git config --global user.name "Sam Smith"
git config --global user.email sam@example.com
```

2. Create a new repository. It's easiest to do this on [Github.com](https://www.github.com/), following [these instructions](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-new-repository/).

3. Clone the repository to your local machine
```
git clone /path/to/repository
```

4. Make some changes, adding or editing a file for instance.

5. View the status of the changes made. (You can check the status at any time)
```
git status
```

6. Add the changed files to Git staging area.
```
git add <filename>
```
or to add everything:
```
git add *
```

7. Commit the changes with a message:
```
git commit -m "Commit message"
```

8. Push the changes to GitHub:
```
git push origin master
```

## Additional Resources on Version Control

[Git - Getting Started with Version Control](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-About-Version-Control)

[Atlassian Git Tutorial](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/what-is-version-control)

------

## What is HTML?

Now that we know how to use version control to start a new project, let's talk about the core language of website content: HTML. **HTML** stands for **Hyper Text Markup Language**. It is a language that uses blocks called **tags** or **elements** to describe the structure of a website. HTML is the markup language that a browser like Google Chrome reads to determine what type of content and interactive elements are on the page.

A simple HTML document may look like something like this:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <title>My Web Page</title>
  </head>
  
  <body>
    <h1>My Heading</h1>
    <p>My first paragraph.</p>
  </body>
</html>
```

As you can see, it consists of a series of opening tags (like `<p>`) and closing tags (`</p>`) that enclose content at different levels. This is what each of the tags mean in the example above:

- The `<!DOCTYPE html>` indicates to the browser that this is an HTML document.
- The `<html>` element encloses all the HTML on the page. This is also known as a **root element**.
- The `<head>` element contains "meta" data about the page that search engines use like a title and description.
- The `<title>` element specifies a title for the web page.
- The `<body>` element contains all of the content that is visible in the browser.
- The `<h1>` element defines the largest first level heading. There are also `<h2>`, `<h3>`, `<h4>`, `<h5>`, `<h6>` for smaller headings. 
- The `<p>` element defines a paragraph.

## HTML Tutorial

Go through the first 3 sections of the [Codeacademy HTML & CSS course](https://www.codecademy.com/en/tracks/web) to learn all the basics about HTML tags. You should complete the sections titled **Introduction to HTML**, **HTML Structure: Using Lists** and **HTML Structure: Tables, Divs and Spans**. Stop before the section titled **Introduction to CSS**.


## Additional Resources on HTML

[Mozilla Getting Started with HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/Getting_started)

[Simple HTML Cheat Sheet](http://www.simplehtmlguide.com/cheatsheet.php)

Commit message:

Add resource on setting up SSH connection

lectures/01.md, after:

[Back to Schedule](../schedule.md)

# Week 1: Version Control, Git, HTML

## What is version control?

Version control describes a system that keeps track of changes to a code project over time. Each change to code is tracked so that if at any time, a developer wants to turn back time to a previous version of the code, he/she is able to do so. Every project that you start working on as a web developer benefits from being tracked in a version control system, because it will record the history of all the additions and changes that happen over time to the project. When working in a group, the version control system will also help to resolve conflicts when different team members make different changes to the same line of code.

## Git

Git is the most widely used version control system in the software development world today. It is an open source program that contains all the logic to track the entire history of changes in a project, called commits, along with comments describing the changes. Many software projects, both commercial and open-source are version controlled with the Git and hosted on it's website, [GitHub](https://www.github.com/). 

For this course, we will create GitHub **repositories** for all our projects. A repository is a container for a code project (similar to a folder on your computer where you store all the project files). Publishing all the changes to your code on GitHub as you work on it will ensure that if anything issues happen with your computer, all the saved code is secured online and you can easily recover it.

## Install Git

### Windows

1. Download the [Git installer for Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win)
2. Run the install script.
  1. Make sure the option to install **Git Bash** is checked
  2. Select **Vim** as Git's default editor.
  3. Select **Use Git from Git Bash only**.
  4. Select **Use the OpenSSL library**.
  5. Select **Checkout Windows-style, commit Unix-style line endings**.
  6. Select **Use MinTTY**.
  
### Mac

1. Download Homebrew by pasting the following into Terminal:
```
/usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
```
2. If you are asked if you want to install the **Command Line Developer Tools** by Apple, confirm by clicking **Install**.
3. Paste the following into Terminal to install git from Homebrew:
```
brew install git
```

## Create a GitHub account

If you don't have one already, register for an account on [GitHub.com](https://www.github.com/).

## Connect your computer to your GitHub account with SSH

Follow the [instructions here](https://help.github.com/articles/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/) to establish an SSH connection from your computer to your account on GitHub. SSH is a protocol that will ensure secure authentication into your account when you submit changes from your local machine.

## Basic Git Tutorial

The following tutorial will teach the basic Git commands, including how to create a repository, add and change files, and more: [Git Tutorial](http://product.hubspot.com/blog/git-and-github-tutorial-for-beginners)

## Basic Git Commands

Here are the basic steps you'll need to get started with a new repository on Git:

1. Tell Git who you are. You'll only have to do this once:
```
git config --global user.name "Sam Smith"
git config --global user.email sam@example.com
```

2. Create a new repository. It's easiest to do this on [Github.com](https://www.github.com/), following [these instructions](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-new-repository/).

3. Clone the repository to your local machine
```
git clone /path/to/repository
```

4. Make some changes, adding or editing a file for instance.

5. View the status of the changes made. (You can check the status at any time)
```
git status
```

6. Add the changed files to Git staging area.
```
git add <filename>
```
or to add everything:
```
git add *
```

7. Commit the changes with a message:
```
git commit -m "Commit message"
```

8. Push the changes to GitHub:
```
git push origin master
```

## Git Resources

[Connecting to GitHub with SSH](https://help.github.com/articles/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/)

[Creating a new repository on GitHub](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-new-repository/)

[Git - Getting Started with Version Control](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-About-Version-Control)

[Atlassian Git Tutorial](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/what-is-version-control)

------

## What is HTML?

Now that we know how to use version control to start a new project, let's talk about the core language of website content: HTML. **HTML** stands for **Hyper Text Markup Language**. It is a language that uses blocks called **tags** or **elements** to describe the structure of a website. HTML is the markup language that a browser like Google Chrome reads to determine what type of content and interactive elements are on the page.

A simple HTML document may look like something like this:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <title>My Web Page</title>
  </head>
  
  <body>
    <h1>My Heading</h1>
    <p>My first paragraph.</p>
  </body>
</html>
```

As you can see, it consists of a series of opening tags (like `<p>`) and closing tags (`</p>`) that enclose content at different levels. This is what each of the tags mean in the example above:

- The `<!DOCTYPE html>` indicates to the browser that this is an HTML document.
- The `<html>` element encloses all the HTML on the page. This is also known as a **root element**.
- The `<head>` element contains "meta" data about the page that search engines use like a title and description.
- The `<title>` element specifies a title for the web page.
- The `<body>` element contains all of the content that is visible in the browser.
- The `<h1>` element defines the largest first level heading. There are also `<h2>`, `<h3>`, `<h4>`, `<h5>`, `<h6>` for smaller headings. 
- The `<p>` element defines a paragraph.

## HTML Tutorial

Go through the first 3 sections of the [Codeacademy HTML & CSS course](https://www.codecademy.com/en/tracks/web) to learn all the basics about HTML tags. You should complete the sections titled **Introduction to HTML**, **HTML Structure: Using Lists** and **HTML Structure: Tables, Divs and Spans**. Stop before the section titled **Introduction to CSS**.


## HTML Resources

[Mozilla Getting Started with HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/Getting_started)

[Simple HTML Cheat Sheet](http://www.simplehtmlguide.com/cheatsheet.php)
