[Back to Schedule](../schedule.md)

# Week 12 Prep: React Router

---

[Single Page Applications and Routers](#single-page-applications-and-routers)


## Single Page Applications and Routers

Many modern web applications fall under a category that we call "single page application" or SPA for short. In contrast to the traditional multi-page website (in which hyperlinks are used to navigate between different pages), in a single page application we never go to an entirely new page but instead load different views within the same page.

This makes the experience of navigation through a website faster and more seamless to a user. Although we are loading and changing to different views, the screen never goes completely blank as an entirely new page is loaded. Content is instead loaded inline within the same page itself. To see this in action, check out a website like Facebook or Youtube. Notice how even when you click on different links within the website, the top navigation bar never goes completely out of view to reload. It is always there and only the content below changes.

With single page applications, we have to do some extra work to ensure that the URL of the web page is consistent with the content that is shown. Users expect the URL to reflect the thing that they are viewing, and to be able to use it to reference a certain view. We also need to be able to use the back and forward buttons on our browser to navigate between visited views.

**Routing** is a system that is used by single page applications to solve this problem. It describes a way in which URLs are mapped to destinations that aren't separate HTML files. In React, there is a specific library we will use for this function called React Router. React Router provides a way to write your code such that certain components are shown only if the URL (the "route") matches what is defined.

