[Back to Schedule](../schedule.md)

# Project Week 1: User Experience and Interface Design

---

[Introduction to UX](#introduction-to-ux)

---

## Introduction to UX

Applications can be unintuitive and difficult to use. Content can be unpleasant to consume. The field of *user experience*, or "UX" for short, seeks to alleviate users of such difficulties. A good user experience should move the product aside, and connect a user directly to a solution. We can break UX design into four groups: planning, structure, layout and visual. Let’s review each of these in-depth:

### Planning

While it may seem easy to target ourselves and our own likes when designing apps or web sites, remember that we are not always the type of person who will be using it. So meeting our needs doesn’t necessarily mean we are doing the right things or making the best choices.

Focus on the needs of the user to meet their goals while ensuring to meet the objectives and requirements of the product.

Interviewing potential users, developing personas and writing user stories can help plan and define the strategy for designing a web app.

### Structure

The structure of a product is defined through information architecture. User flows and site maps define how a person navigates in a web application and interprets the information.

### Layout

When we create wireframes by applying layout to the structure of our flows, we are completing the information design of a product: displaying content effectively to provide proper context.

### Visual

Visual design is what a user sees on the surface. This is the stylized layer of an application or web site. It’s also often all that people think of when they hear the word "design" and misconstrued as entirely what design consists of. Each of the other parts are important too, because without planning, structure and layout, we end up with an aesthetically pleasing product with flaws.

---

## Planning: User Surveys and Interviews

https://library.gv.com/the-gv-research-sprint-a-4-day-process-for-answering-important-startup-questions-97279b532b25
